1. Retrieve full store end-of-day Z report
   1. Locate “Cash Received” -- This is the final number we should get after adding up the cash from each drawer
2. Get count in/out sheets for desired day’s PM and the next day’s AM
   1. Compare to check for any discrepancies
      1. If there is a discrepancy, check to see if it was resolved the next morning (Jim or Michaela may attach the missing amount to the count sheet)
3. Retrieve individual registers’ end-of-day Z reports
   1. Match each with the coupons and cash found in that register’s folder
      1. Keep cash piles separate until the end of the process
      2. Double-check and initial on receipt to confirm correct amounts for cash received
   2. Separate manufacturer coupons, store coupons, and check stubs out from the rest of the receipts (returns, buy X, etc.)
      1. All other receipts can be stapled together with the three individual registers’ Z reports
   3. Any square receipts/credit card information should be put together, stapled (CC #’s NOT visible), and dated with the SALE date
   4. At this point, all count in/out sheets can be recycled if no discrepancies remain unresolved
4. Count total cash received and match it up with full store Z report’s cash received
   1. You may use a calculator and/or separate bills into matching piles to make the process easier and less prone to error
   2. Check off and initial on Z report
5. Fill out bank deposit slip
   1. Account number in upper left
   2. Date of SALE (NOT the current date, but the date on which the sales were made)
   3. Name: “Braxton’s”
   4. Make sure to include any checks in the folder separately from the cash amount in the corresponding box on the slip
   5. Total all cash & checks and write it down in the total amount box
6. Put cash, checks, deposit slip, and calculator tape (if used) into the bank bag
7. In John’s office:
   1. Empty manila folders go in a box to the left of the desk
   2. Square receipts/ CC info goes in the box on the floor opposite the desk
   3. Store/MFR coupons, check stubs go in bin on the back of the desk
   4. Stapled receipt pile goes in the bin on the floor to the left of the desk
   5. Full store Z report goes in a pile to the left of the desk
   6. Bank bag goes in the safe