Social Media Strategy and Steps


Strategy
* Create one piece of “Hero Content” per week. (Blog Post)
* From that “Hero Content”, create at least 2 still image FB and IG posts. (Video content is ideal)
* Use content pillars to schedule and plan posts.
* Keep the marketing Funnel in mind. “How do we drive people to the store?”
* Current trend is storytelling (recurring trend like white kitchens) 


Content Pillars
* Monday- Promotions
* Tuesday- What’s New
* Wednesday- Blog “Hero Content”
* Thursday- Education
* Friday- Culture


Execution
1. Hero Content (2 Hours)
   1. Reference Airtable content planner for idea bank or scheduled content needed.
   2. Create a Blog with ChatGPT or other AI tools.
   3. Fine tune with images, SEO keywords, and backlinks.
   4. Create Hook images for social media sharing and apply to the top of the blog page.
   5. Review phone view format to ensure photos are properly sized and placed.
   6. Publish.
2. Schedule Hero Content (15 Minutes)
   1. Publishing day is Wednesday.
   2. Publish to FB with proper link and hashtag.
   3. Schedule using recommended ideal posting time.
   4. Publish to IG 
   5. Update Profile IG link for new blog
   6. Publish story for FB and IG
3. Create Posts for IG and FB from Blog driving home main points (2 Hours)
   1. Still Format Posts
      1. Use a mixture of IG carousels, tiktok/reels, and single posts
      2. Use canva branded templates to create content
      3. Every post needs a “Hook” and “Call to Action” (CTA)
      4. Always make the CTA trackable (social media metrics or site traffic analytics)
      5. If in-store photo is needed, use Google pixel behind the counter ideally use portrait mode visual effect.
   2. Video Format Posts
      1. Use Google pixel behind counter to record content
      2. Ideal content for phone viewing is portrait mode
      3. Ideal content for TVs or youtube is landscape mode
4. Engage the Public (1 Hour)
   1. Primary focus is engaging people that engage with our content
   2. Engage other accounts of brands, groups, or organizations we support (could be directly on the post or with someone in the comments)


Marketing Funnel
1. Attraction Content (how do we help/solve a problem) Reels
2. Nurture Content (value and establish credibility) Reels, Single Posts
3. Sales Content (traffic driving) Story


________________




Content Video Format (Idea Bank)
1. Service Based Videos (3 issues our service solves for customers)
   1. Nail Trimming
   2. Self Wash
   3. Delivery
   4. Xtool Personalized Items
   5. Nutrition Consultation
      1. New puppy, stool issues, weight issues (idea: screen record generating pdf for customer)
   6. Customer Service
      1. Carry out bag
2. “B” Roll Videos “Behind the Scenes” (Videos of mundane behind the scenes tasks at the store)
   1. Behind the counter view
   2. Warehouse view
   3. Merchandising new product (product feature)
   4. Load delivery truck
   5. Driving deliveries (angled to see product in the back)
   6. Nail trim with text pop up on side
   7. Dog wash with text pop up on side
   8. Liz compiling consult info pet owner or liz discussing info with owner (use kris and puppy)
   9. Liz introduction for consultations
   10. Sky introduction for nail trimmings
   11. Drinking from coffee mug we design and print
3. Product videos (3 Features of the product and problem they solve for the customer)
   1. Dog Baths- no hair in your drain, not leaning over your tub, no wet hairy bathroom floor
   2. Cat Picky Eater- broth, fish oil, freeze-dried
4. Storytelling
   1. Video series of employees/owners of pet’s they have owned and which one was the biggest challenge and why
   2. Owner’s/Braxton’s why
   3. Employee stories (what problems have you solved?)
   4. What do you love about working at Braxton’s (recruiting talent potential) focus on helping people/community and pet’s are an added bonus.
   5. You know you work at Braxton’s when…


Beliefs our customers have during the customer journey.
(What do our ideal customers need to believe to choose us?)


Customer Journey


Awareness:
1. Shopping quality for my pet is too expensive.
2. 

Consideration:
1. Shopping quality for my pet is too difficult (too much information).


Decision:
1.