Employee Handbook
________________


WELCOME TO BRAXTON’S ANIMAL WORKS        3
COMPANY PHILOSOPHY        4
Open-Door Policy        5
WORKING AND COMPENSATION        6
Equal Employment Opportunity        6
Employment on an At-Will Basis        6
Attendance and Reporting to Work        6
Workday Hours, Breaks and Scheduling        7
Recording Hours Worked        7
Pay Period and Payday        8
Workweek & Overtime        8
Holidays        8
Employment Classifications        9
Maintaining Your Personnel Records        9
Personnel Files        9
Performance Evaluations        10
STANDARDS AND EXPECTATIONS FOR WORKPLACE SAFETY        11
Harassment Policy        11
Maintaining a Safe Workplace        12
Reporting an Injury        12
Care of Equipment, Supplies, and Merchandise        12
Smoking at the Workplace        12
Violence and Weapons        13
Alcohol/Drug-Free Workplace        13
Responding to Customer Inquiries and Problems        13
Appearance and Dress        14
Confidential and Proprietary Information        14
Conflict of Interest/Code Of Ethical Conduct        14
Personal Calls, Visits, and Business        15
Use of Cell Phone Or Similar Devices        15
Business Expenses        15
Inspection of Personal and Company Property        15
Network and Electronic Resources Policy        16
Rules of Conduct and Progressive Disciplinary Procedure        17
Re-Employment        18
Benefits        19
Paid Time Off        19
Leaves of Absence        19
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT OF EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK        21
WELCOME TO BRAXTON’S ANIMAL WORKS 
Braxton’s Animal Works has prepared this handbook to provide you with an overview of the company’s policies, benefits, and rules. It is intended to familiarize you with important information about the company, as well as provide guidelines for your employment experience with us in an effort to foster a safe and healthy work environment.
Please understand that this booklet only highlights company policies, practices, and benefits for your personal understanding and cannot, therefore, be construed as a legal document. It is intended to provide general information about the policies, benefits, and regulations governing the employees of the company, and is not intended to be an express or implied contract. The guidelines presented in this handbook are not intended to be a substitute for sound management, judgment, and discretion. 
It is obviously not possible to anticipate every situation that may arise in the workplace or to provide information that answers every possible question. In addition, circumstances will undoubtedly require that policies, practices, and benefits described in this handbook change from time to time. Accordingly, the company reserves the right to modify, supplement, rescind, or revise any provision of this handbook from time to time as it deems necessary or appropriate in its sole discretion with or without notice to you.
All of us must work together to make the company a viable, healthy, and profitable organization. This is the only way we can provide a satisfactory working environment that promotes genuine concern and respect for others including all employees and our customers. If any statements in this handbook are not clear to you, please contact the company president or his designated representative for clarification. This handbook supersedes any and all prior policies, procedures, and handbooks of the company.


________________


COMPANY PHILOSOPHY
It is Braxton’s goal to be recognized as a leader in customer service. We are committed to one simple idea: Offer each customer the best possible service, quality, value and selection. We are dedicated to building our business, one customer at a time, by listening, and working hard to provide the customer with an incredible shopping experience.
Do your part! … Be responsible for your areas of influence.
* Yourself
   * Present a professional image in appearance, words and actions
   * Be neat and clean
   * Speak clearly
* Your attitude
   * Say hello… and goodbye 
   * Be positive and polite
   * Give compliments 
   * Have fun! – Smile
* Your knowledge
   * Strive to increase your product knowledge to make educated recommendations to customers
   * Answer customers honestly. If you don’t know the answer; offer to get the information.
* The store
   * Keep the store clean
   * Stock shelves
   * Front and straighten product
   * Help co-workers before being asked. You would want help too
* Customer interaction
   * Communicate clearly
   * Use customer’s name, or their pet’s, if you can and make sure they know your name
   * Ask appropriate questions. Discover what your customer needs
   * Listen, Listen, Listen
   * Assist customers with purchases to their car
We trust you to use your best judgment in every situation
Our interest is in continuous improvement. We want to hear solutions or suggestions to help Braxton’s be the best.
________________
Open-Door Policy
In keeping with the company’s philosophy of open communication, all employees have the right and are encouraged to speak freely with management about their job-related concerns. 
We urge you to go directly to your supervisor to discuss your job-related ideas, recommendations, concerns and other issues which are important to you. If, after talking with your supervisor, you feel the need for additional discussion, you are encouraged to speak with the company president. 
Should you need support from someone other than your supervisor, the entire management team, including the company president, is committed to resolving your individual concerns in a timely and appropriate manner. 
________________
WORKING AND COMPENSATION
Equal Employment Opportunity
It is the policy of the Company to provide equal employment opportunity to all employees and applicants for employment and not to discriminate on any basis prohibited by law, including race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, disability, marital status or veteran status. It is our intent and desire that equal employment opportunities will be provided in employment, recruitment, selection, compensation, benefits, promotion, demotion, layoff, termination and all other terms and conditions of employment. All managerial personnel of the Company are committed to this policy and its enforcement.
Employees are directed to bring any violation of this policy to the immediate attention of their supervisor or the company president. Any employee who violates this policy or knowingly retaliates against an employee reporting or complaining of a violation of this policy shall be subject to immediate disciplinary action, up to and including discharge. Complaints brought under this policy will be promptly investigated and handled with due regard for the privacy and respect of all involved.
Employment on an At-Will Basis
All employees of the company, regardless of their classification or position, are employed on an at-will basis. This means that each employee’s employment is terminable at the will of the employee or the company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice. No officer, agent, representative, or employee of the company has any authority to enter into any agreement with any employee or applicant for employment other than on an at-will basis. Furthermore, nothing contained in the policies, procedures, handbooks, manuals, job descriptions, application for employment, or any other document of the company shall in any way create an express or implied contract of employment or an employment relationship on other than an at-will basis.
Attendance and Reporting to Work
Each employee is important to the overall success of our operation. When you are not here, someone else must do your job. Consequently, you are expected to report to work on time at the scheduled start of your shift. Reporting to work on time means that you are ready to start work, not just arriving at work at your scheduled starting time.
Excessive absenteeism and/or tardiness will lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The determination of excessive absenteeism will be made at the discretion of the company. Absence from work for three consecutive scheduled shifts without properly notifying your supervisor will be considered a voluntary resignation. After two missed shifts, you may be required to provide documentation from your physician to support an injury or illness-related absence, and to ensure that you may safely return to work.
To request time off, you must notify your supervisor by an approved electronic manner 15 days in advance. This allows the company to project and post schedules 2 weeks forward. Once schedules are posted, you are responsible for covering your shift and notifying your supervisor by an approved electronic manner if someone else is working your shift. If you unexpectedly need to be absent from or late to work, you must notify your supervisor by call or text to their cell phone prior to the start of your scheduled shift that you will be late or absent and provide the reason for that absence or tardiness. If your supervisor is not available, you should leave a message on his/her cell phone prior to the start of your scheduled shift. Leave your number so that your supervisor can return your call. Failure to properly make contact will result in an unexcused absence for disciplinary purposes. Your attendance record is a part of your overall performance rating. Your attendance may be included during your review and may be considered for other disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Our company cares about your well-being, so we've put together a comprehensive sick leave policy to ensure a smooth process for everyone. Here are the details:
Notifying Management:
Please try to give us as much notice as possible, preferably by 8:00 AM on the day of the absence. We understand that some illnesses can strike suddenly, so if that happens, please let us know as soon as you can.
Notification Process: 
You can notify your manager or supervisor directly via phone call or email. If your manager is unavailable, please contact another member of the management team.
In case of unplanned conditions, such as bad weather, that may force a schedule change at the last minute, you should contact your supervisor.
Where possible, medical and dental appointments should be scheduled around your assigned work shift. If you are unable to schedule an appointment before or after your shift, you are required to talk to your supervisor to make special arrangements.
Workday Hours, Breaks and Scheduling
Our Company’s regular hours of business are from 9:30am to 5:30pm Sunday through Saturday. It is likely that you will be scheduled to arrive before we open and leave after we close. It is important that you are here and ready to work at your scheduled time so that we can be prepared for the customers.
Work schedules are established to ensure the Company will have the proper number of employees necessary to provide excellent customer service to our customers and complete job tasks required to keep the store in order. Therefore, it is imperative for all employees to arrive for their shift on time. 
Employees are allowed paid 15 minute breaks and an unpaid 30 minute break based on the following number of hours worked.
* 4 hours = One 15 minute break
* 5 hours = One 30 minute break
* 6 hours = One 15 minute break & One 30 minute break
* 8 hours = Two 15 minute breaks & One 30 minute break
These are scheduled breaks and should be taken at the time designated on the daily floor plan. In order to ensure adequate floor coverage, it is important that you inform your co-workers that you are going on break and that you return on time.
Food and Beverage Policy Behind Registers and Other Work Areas
All meals and beverages should primarily be enjoyed in the breakroom and during designated break times. Light snacking, water, and coffee may be consumed discreetly behind the counter as needed. However, all food and beverages should remain out of the direct view of customers.
When assisting customers or in close proximity to them, please refrain from eating or drinking to maintain a professional and focused environment.
Recording Hours Worked 
All hourly employees are required to clock in and out with the timeclock software. Never allow another co-worker to clock in or out for you. If you are having problems with the timeclock software, contact the Office Manager.
Falsifying time worked is subject to immediate disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Pay Period and Payday
The company issues paychecks on a bi-weekly basis. Pay periods start on Sunday morning and end on Saturday evening. Every other Thursday, you will receive a paycheck for all hours worked in the pay period ending the previous Saturday evening. If an employee uses direct deposit, the employee’s pay will be available for withdrawal from his/her bank account on Thursday morning.
Workweek & Overtime
The company’s work week begins on Sunday at 12:01 a.m. and ends on Saturday at 12:00 midnight. 
Occasionally it may be necessary for an employee to work beyond his or her normal workday hours. Overtime pay is paid only when work is scheduled, approved, and made known to you in advance by your supervisor. Under no circumstances shall an employee work overtime without the prior approval of his or her supervisor.
Hourly employees will receive overtime pay at a rate of one-and-one-half times their regular hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of 40 in a workweek.
Holidays
The Company observes the following holidays: 
* New Year's Day
* Easter
* Memorial Day
* Fourth of July
* Labor Day
* Thanksgiving
* Christmas
Full-time employees will be paid for these holidays. If your scheduled day off falls on a paid holiday or you have worked your 37 ½ hours that week, you will receive a compensatory day. This day will be scheduled at a mutually agreed upon time by you and your supervisor. 
Full-time employees will receive a paid day off on their birthday. If your scheduled day off falls on your birthday or you have worked your 37 ½ hours that week, you will receive a compensatory day. This day will be scheduled at a mutually agreed upon time by you and your supervisor. 
Part-time employees are not eligible for paid holidays or birthdays.
Employment Classifications
Upon being hired by the Company, all new employees must serve a ninety (90) calendar day introductory/probationary period. It is especially important that you make your supervisor aware of any questions or problems you may encounter during this period. Your performance will be carefully monitored during this period. At the end of the introductory period, your performance will be reviewed, and if it has been satisfactory, you will become a Regular Full-Time (37 ½ hours) or Regular Part-Time (under 37 ½ hours) Employee. Satisfactory completion of the introductory period does not entitle you to employment for any specific term. 
For the sole purpose of determining the allowance of certain employee benefits, employees are classified as:
1. Regular Full-Time Employees - An employee who has satisfactorily completed the introductory period and is scheduled to work an average of thirty seven and a half (37 ½) hours per week on a regular and continuous basis.
2. Regular Part-Time Employees - An employee who has satisfactorily completed the introductory period and is usually scheduled to work less than an average of thirty seven and a half (37 ½) hours per week. 
For payroll purposes, employees will be classified as one of the following:
Exempt Employees - Certain employees such as company officers, store and office managers are paid on a salary basis for all hours worked each week. These employees are expected to work whatever hours are required to accomplish their duties, even if it exceeds their normal workweek. No overtime premium pay will be paid to exempt employees in most circumstances.
Non-Exempt Employees - All employees who are not identified as exempt employees are considered non-exempt employees. Non-exempt employees are eligible for payment of overtime premium pay.
Maintaining Your Personnel Records
It is your responsibility to provide the office manager with current information regarding your address, telephone number, marital status, tax exemptions, etc. Changes in exemptions for tax purposes will only be made upon the receipt of a completed W-4 form.
Personnel Files
Employee personnel files are the property of the company, and do not belong to the employee. However, upon request, the company will provide employees with copies of performance evaluations and other performance-related documents that the employee has previously received.
Performance Evaluations
Employees will have a formal job performance review on an annual basis by either their supervisor or by an officer of the company.
You may request a meeting at any time to ask questions, clarify expectations, make suggestions or ask for additional responsibility as well as anything else you feel the need to discuss related to the business and your job. We want to make sure you feel comfortable talking to and sharing your needs and concerns. 
________________
STANDARDS AND EXPECTATIONS FOR WORKPLACE SAFETY
Our company takes employee safety very seriously. However, to achieve our goal of providing a safe workplace, each employee must be safety conscious. We have established the following policies and procedures that allow us to provide a safe and healthy working environment. We expect each employee to follow these policies and procedures, to act safely, and to report unsafe conditions to his or her supervisor in a timely manner.
Harassment Policy
The Company will not tolerate harassment or intimidation of our employees on any basis prohibited by law, including race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, handicap, disability, marital status, or veteran status. It is the policy of the Company that any harassment, including acts creating a hostile work environment or any other discriminatory acts directed against our employees, will result in discipline, up to and including discharge. The Company also will not tolerate any such harassment of our employees by our clients or vendors.
Harassment can include bullying, name calling, making fun of or ostracizing as well as other behaviors
For purposes of this policy, sexual harassment is defined as any type of sexually-oriented conduct, whether intentional or not, that is unwelcome and has the purpose or effect of creating a work environment that is hostile, offensive or coercive. 
The following are examples of conduct that may constitute sexual harassment:
* Unwelcome sexual jokes, language, epithets, advances or propositions;
* Written or verbal abuse of a sexual nature, sexually degrading or vulgar words to describe an individual;
* The display of sexually suggestive objects, pictures, posters or cartoons;
* Unwelcome comments about an individual’s body;
* Asking questions about sexual conduct;
* Unwelcome touching, leering, whistling, brushing against the body, or suggestive, insulting or obscene comments or gestures;
* Demanding sexual favors in exchange for favorable reviews, assignments, promotions, or continued employment, or promises of the same.
Employees must bring any violation of this policy to the immediate attention of their supervisor or anyone on the management team. The Company will thoroughly investigate all such claims with due regard for the privacy of the individuals involved. Any employee who knowingly retaliates against an employee who has reported workplace harassment or discrimination shall be subject to immediate disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
________________
Reporting Unsafe Conditions or Practices
Most accidents can be prevented by being alert and aware of your surroundings. If you observe an unsafe condition, you should warn others, if possible, and report that condition to your supervisor immediately. If you have a question regarding the safety of your workplace and practices, ask your supervisor for clarification. Safety at work is a team effort.
Maintaining a Safe Workplace
We expect employees to maintain a safe workplace. This includes but is not limited to the following applications:
* Using proper lifting techniques at all times.
* Keeping store aisles clear of merchandise.
* Only operating motorized equipment if authorized.
* Never engaging in horseplay, roughhousing, and other physical acts that may endanger employees or cause accidents.
* Reporting faulty equipment or unsafe practice to the supervisor immediately. 
* Following established safety rules.
Reporting an Injury 
Employees are required to report any injury, accident, or safety hazard immediately to their supervisor. Minor cuts or abrasions should be treated on the spot. More serious injuries or accidents will be treated accordingly. Serious injuries must be reported to your supervisor, office manager, or company officers. At that time, an injury or accident report form will be completed and a decision made to call for medical assistance. 
Care of Equipment, Supplies, and Merchandise
All employees are expected to take care of all equipment and supplies provided to them. You are responsible for maintaining this material in proper working condition and for promptly reporting any unsafe or improper functioning of this equipment to your supervisor.
Our retail merchandise is the lifeblood of the business. We must treat all the products as valuable. There is a significant cost to the business when products are damaged and unsellable. We also want to present a professional image and allow the customers to have the best customer service experience with neat, clean, and undamaged products for sale in the store.
Neglect, theft, and/or destruction of the company’s materials are grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Smoking at the Workplace
According to Pennsylvania state law, smokers are prohibited from smoking in the workplace or within 15 feet of windows and doors. Employees may smoke on scheduled breaks or during meal times, in accordance with Pennsylvania state law. Employees who take excessive smoke breaks are subject to immediate disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The designated smoking area on this premises is behind the trash and recycling receptacles.
Violence and Weapons 
The company will not tolerate violence in the workplace. Violence includes but is not limited to physical altercations, coercion, pushing or shoving, horseplay, intimidation, stalking, and threats of violence. Any employee found threatening or committing a violent act against another employee will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
No weapons are allowed in our workplace. Weapons include but are not limited to firearms, knives, box cutters, clubs, bats, or explosives. If your job requires you to use an item qualified as a weapon, you must receive authorization from your supervisor to bring that item to work or use it in the workplace. Any employee found with an unauthorized weapon in the workplace will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Small knives/box cutters: There is a significant amount of product stocking that arrives in cardboard boxes. You may use an approved pocket knife or box cutter. It is important that you use it discreetly and appropriately especially when on the sales floor.
Alcohol/Drug-Free Workplace 
The company does not tolerate the presence of illegal drugs or the illegal use of legal drugs in our workplace. The use, possession, distribution, or sale of controlled substances such as drugs or alcohol, or being under the influence of such controlled substances is strictly prohibited while on duty, while on the company’s premise or workplace, while representing the company, or while operating the company’s equipment or vehicles. The use of illegal drugs as well as the illegal use of legal drugs and alcohol is harmful to employee safety, and results in low productivity and our ability to service customers and prosper as a business. Violation of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Your receipt of this policy statement and signature on the handbook acknowledgment form signify your agreement to comply with this policy.
Any employee who is convicted of violating criminal drug statutes must notify an appropriate officer or senior official of the company of that conviction within five days of the conviction. Failure to do so may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Responding to Customer Inquiries and Problems 
Customer service is our first priority. The only reason we have a business, or a job is because our customers have chosen us. It is the responsibility of each employee to provide prompt, knowledgeable, and friendly service to all of our customers. 
Appearance and Dress
To present a professional image to our customers and the public, all employees are required to wear appropriate clothing on the job. 
Employees are expected to wear work clothes appropriate for work to be done. Dress is casual, but always neat, and clean. Jeans are allowed, but must be free of holes and tears. Leggings are permitted in neutral toned colors ie: black, brown or white. Shorts are permitted between April and October but must extend past your fingertips when standing up straight with your arms at your sides. Cut-offs, sweatpants, and short shorts are not acceptable attire. The company will provide employees with shirts bearing the Company’s logo, which employees are expected to wear in the store. Closed toed shoes must be worn at all times. Shirts should be returned to the company upon termination of employment. 


Tattoos:
1. Employees are allowed to have tattoos on their arms and legs.
2. Tattoos can cover a maximum of 20% of the surface area of each limb.
3. Visible tattoos should be tasteful and not contain offensive or inappropriate imagery or verbiage.
4. If an employee has a tattoo that exceeds the allowed surface area, they must cover it during work hours using appropriate clothing or accessories.
5. Braxton’s reserves all rights to ask employees to cover tattoos that are deemed offensive, inappropriate or distasteful.
Piercings:
1. Standard ear lobe piercing is allowed and can be worn without restriction as long as the size and shape will not cause injury to the employee while working (ear gauges are not permitted.)
   1. Earrings should be tasteful and not contain offensive or inappropriate imagery or symbols.
   2. Braxton’s reserves all rights to ask employees to remove or cover earrings that are deemed offensive, inappropriate or distasteful.
2. Nasallang Piercing and Septum Piercing are permitted, provided they are of moderate size and clear piercings. (Nasallang Piercings must be no greater than 2.5mm.)
3. Other facial, body, or extreme piercings are not allowed during work hours.
4. If an employee has piercings that are not within the permitted guidelines, they are required to remove them or cover them during work hours.


Confidential and Proprietary Information
The Company considers its confidential and proprietary information, including the confidential and proprietary information of our customers, to be one of its most valuable assets. As a result, employees must carefully protect and must not disclose to any third party all confidential and proprietary information belonging to the Company or its customers. Such protected information includes, but is not limited to, the following: matters of a technical nature, such as computer software, and product sources, and matters of a business nature, such as customer lists, customer contact information, on-site program and support materials, candidate and recruit lists and information, personnel information, pricing lists, training programs, contracts, financial and marketing data, systems, forms, methods, procedures, and analyses, and any other proprietary information, whether communicated orally or in documentary, computerized or other tangible form, concerning the Company’s or its customers’ operations and business. 
An employee who improperly discloses sensitive, confidential, or proprietary information to anyone outside the company will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Conflict of Interest/Code Of Ethical Conduct
In order to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest, employees are expected to abide by the following code of ethical conduct. 
* Employees of the company may not engage in a working relationship with a competitor while employed by Braxton’s.
* Employees of the company should not solicit anything of value from any person or organization with which the company has a current or potential business relationship.
* Employees of the company should not accept any item of value from any party in exchange for or in connection with a business transaction between the company and that other party.
* Employees may not accept tips from customers. If one is offered, the employee should graciously decline.
If you are faced with and are unsure how to handle a situation that you believe has the potential to violate this code of ethical conduct, notify your supervisor or the company president.
Violations of this code may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Personal Calls, Visits, and Business 
The company telephone system is for business use only. Although employees may occasionally have to take care of personal matters during the workday, employees should try to conduct such personal business either before or after the workday or during breaks or meal periods. Regardless of when any personal call is made, it should be kept brief.
Employees should also limit incoming personal calls, visits, or personal transactions. The company’s phones should be available to serve the company’s customers, and non-business use of the phones can hurt the company’s business. A pattern of excessive personal phone calls, personal visits, and/or private business dealings is not acceptable and may lead to disciplinary action.
Use of Cell Phone Or Similar Devices
Use of personal cell phones and texting is limited to scheduled breaks and lunch periods in non-working areas. Employees are prohibited from carrying or using cell phones as well as electronics on the sales floor. Smart watches may be worn on the sales floor, but cannot be used for anything other than their time-telling function. Leaving the sales floor to answer a notification is considered an infraction and will lead to disciplinary action.
Business Expenses 
Only pre-approved expenses will be considered reimbursable. Employees may occasionally incur expenses on behalf of the Company. The company will reimburse employees for typical business expenses, such as mileage (for example, when the Company asks an employee to travel for a work related task during the workday) and certain job-related supplies or materials. The company will pay mileage reimbursement at the current IRS Standard Mileage Rate. In order to be reimbursed for mileage and/or job-related supplies or materials, employees must submit all receipts to the Office Manager. 
Inspection of Personal and Company Property
The company’s employees use the property and equipment the company owns and provides, and may also use the company’s materials, information, and other supplies. The company reserves the right to search any Company property (e.g., personal computers, desks, or other storage areas) at any time. Refusal to allow inspection may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Network and Electronic Resources Policy
Network and Electronic Resources, such as computers, other hardware, software, e-mail, landline and cellular telephones, and internet access, are tools that the Company provides its employees to assist them in their work. These Network and Electronic Resources and related access systems are proprietary Company property and subject to review or access by the Company at any time.
All employees who use the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources must follow the guidelines below:
Use Network and Electronic Resources for Company business purposes only.
Messages and communications sent via the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources are subject to subpoena and access by persons outside the Company and may be used in legal proceedings. Please consider this before sending any confidential messages or material via the Network and Electronic Resources.
Remember that all of the Company’s policies, including but not limited to policies on Equal Employment Opportunity, Harassment, Confidentiality, Personal Conduct and Rules of Conduct, apply to the use of the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources. Employees must not review or forward sexually explicit, profane or otherwise unprofessional or unlawful material through the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources.
Passwords protecting the use of the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources are the Company’s property and will be assigned to employees as needed. Employees may not change passwords without the consent of an officer of the Company. Employees must notify an officer of the Company of all passwords and encryption keys assigned to or used by them, and must notify an officer of the Company of any changes to such passwords or encryption keys.
Do not install any software or program on any Company computer or other hardware without the express consent of your supervisor or the company president. 
The company expressly prohibits the unauthorized use, installation, copying or distribution of copyrighted, trademarked or patented material.
Employees must not attempt to override or evade any program or measure installed by the Company to protect the security or limit the use of its Network and Electronic Resources. 
The Company retains the right to review all communications conducted and data saved, reviewed or accessed via the Company’s Network and Electronic Resources, including Company computers, e-mail and internet access. The Company trusts its employees to access or use Company passwords, e-mail or internet access for appropriate business reasons. Inappropriate use of Network and Electronic Resources may result in discipline, up to and including discharge. Employees should be careful to safeguard their passwords, log off their terminals when not in use and not permit others to access Company systems.
Rules of Conduct and Progressive Disciplinary Procedure
There are reasonable rules of conduct which must be followed in any organization to help a group of people work together effectively. The Company expects each employee to present himself or herself in a professional appearance and manner. If an employee is not considerate of others and does not observe reasonable work rules, disciplinary action will be taken. 
Depending on the severity or frequency of the disciplinary problems, a verbal or written reprimand, suspension without pay, disciplinary probation, or discharge may be necessary. It is within the company’s sole discretion to select the appropriate disciplinary action to be taken. Notwithstanding the availability of the various disciplinary options, the company reserves the right to discharge an employee at its discretion, with or without notice.
The following is not a complete list of offenses for which an employee may be subject to discipline, but it is illustrative of those offenses that may result in immediate discipline, up to and including dismissal, for a single offense:
* Excessive absenteeism or tardiness.
* Dishonesty, including falsification of Company-related documents, or misrepresentation of any fact.
* Fighting, disorderly conduct, horseplay, or any other behavior which is dangerous or disruptive.
* Possession of, consumption of, or being under the influence of alcoholic beverages while on Company or customer premises or on Company business.
* Illegal manufacture, distribution, dispensation, sale, possession, or use of illegal drugs or un-prescribed controlled substances.
* Reporting for work with illegal drugs or un-prescribed controlled substances in your body.
* Gossiping about other employees or customers. (Gossip is defined as discussing negative issues with someone who cannot help solve the problem. Gossip can create a toxic work environment, reduce team morale, and damage professional relationships.
* Possession of weapons, firearms, ammunition, explosives, or fireworks on Company or customer premises.
* Failure to promptly report a workplace injury or accident involving any of the Company’s employees, clients, equipment, or property.
* Willful neglect of safety practices, rules, and policies.
* Commission of a crime, or other conduct which may damage the reputation of the Company.
* Stealing, misappropriating, or intentionally damaging property belonging to the Company or its customers or employees.
* Unauthorized use of the Company’s or its clients’ name, logo, funds, equipment, vehicles, or property.
* Insubordination, including failure to comply with any work assignments or instructions given by any Company supervisor with the authority to do so.
* Violation of the Company’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy or its Harassment Policy.
* Interference with the work performance of other employees.
* Failure to cooperate with an internal investigation, including, but not limited to, investigations of violations of these work rules.
* Failure to maintain confidential information belonging to the Company or its customers.
* Failure to comply with the personnel policies and rules of the Company.
Re-Employment
Former employees who are rehired and return to work within three months of their termination will not be required to go through another orientation period, unless the company deems it necessary. As a general rule, the company will not rehire former employees who:
* Were dismissed by the company
* Resigned without giving two weeks’ notice
* Were dismissed for inability to perform job duties
* Had a poor attendance record
* Had a below-average evaluation
* Violated work rules or safety rules
________________
Benefits
Paid Time Off
The Company provides its full-time employees with paid time off (“PTO”) each anniversary year as a way to express our appreciation and a way to renew and refresh our employees.
Full-time employees accrue PTO as follows:
* 1 day per ¼ through the first full year of full time employment
* 1 to 3 years of service - 5 days
* 4 to 7 years of service - 10 days
* 8 to 11 years of service - 15 days
* 12 plus years of service - 20 days 
A “year“, for the purpose of PTO, means a period of 12 consecutive months from the date of employment.
Employees must use all PTO in the calendar year in which it is granted. In order to create scheduling 2 weeks in advance, time off requests should be submitted and approved by your supervisor at least 17 days in advance. Any unused PTO will be forfeited at the end of each calendar year. Employees cannot receive pay in lieu of PTO.
Upon termination of employment for any reason, employees forfeit any accumulated but unused PTO. 
Part-time employees are not eligible for PTO.
Any unused PTO at the end of the calendar year will be paid out at 50% of the remaining hours, at 50% of the employee’s regular rate of pay.
Leaves of Absence
Personal Leave
The Company may, at its discretion, grant an employee a leave of absence without pay when sufficient personal reasons necessitate such a leave. However, employees are not eligible for a personal leave of absence until they have been continuously employed as full-time employees of the company for 12 months. 
The Company may require an employee to provide documentation, such as a doctor’s certification of illness or disability, supporting the employee’s need for a leave of absence, and the Company may periodically require the employee to provide such supporting documentation on basis during the leave of absence. Prior to or upon an employee’s return to work from a leave of absence, the Company may also require the employee to provide documentation establishing the employee’s ability to return to work.
The Company reserves the right to determine the duration of the leave of absence, but no leave of absence shall exceed 12 weeks. If an employee fails to return to work immediately after his or her leave of absence expires, the employee will be considered to have voluntarily resigned his or her position with the Company. 
Employees may continue their health insurance benefits while on a leave of absence by paying the full cost of the employee portion of their premium to remain covered each month during the leave. Employees who wish to continue their insurance coverage should advise the office manager before beginning their leave.
Leaves of absence will be without pay except that employees may be required to use any accrued paid time off during a leave. While on a leave of absence, employees will not accrue additional paid time off. 
Because operations sometimes require that vacant positions be filled, a leave of absence does not guarantee that the job will be available when the employee returns from a leave. If there is no position available, you may be eligible for rehire as a new employee if a new position becomes available. 
Bereavement Leave
The Company will provide up to three days of paid bereavement leave for a full time employee upon the death of an immediate family member. For purposes of this policy, “immediate family” is defined as the employee’s spouse, parents, spouse’s parents, siblings, children, grandparents, grandchildren, or any other relative who resides in the employee’s household. 
Employees should direct all requests for Bereavement Leave to their supervisors or to an officer of the Company. 
While on Bereavement Leave, an employee will be paid at straight time for the hours the employee was scheduled to work on the days missed.
Jury Leave
In accordance with Federal & State laws, employees who are called for jury duty will be granted time off to perform this civic duty. This time will be unpaid. Employees must notify their supervisors as soon as they learn they have been summoned as a juror so that work arrangements can be made. If you are chosen to sit on a jury, you must inform your supervisor and check in periodically during your jury service. 
Military Leave
In accordance with state and federal laws, employees who must be absent from work for military service are entitled to take a military leave of absence. This leave will be unpaid. During this unpaid leave, employees are free to use accrued “paid time off”
An employee whose military service has ended must return to work or inform the Company that he/she wants to be reinstated in accordance with the Uniformed Services Employment And Reemployment Rights Act. (USERRA).
________________


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT OF EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK


I have received the current company employee handbook and have read and I understand the material covered. I have had the opportunity to ask questions about the policies in this handbook, and I understand that any future questions that I may have about the handbook or its contents will be answered by the Office Manager or his or her designated representative upon request. I agree to and will comply with the policies, procedures, and other guidelines set forth in the handbook. I understand that the company reserves the right to change, modify, or abolish any or all of the policies, benefits, rules, and regulations contained or described in the handbook as it deems appropriate at any time, with or without notice. I acknowledge that neither the handbook nor its contents are an express or implied contract regarding my employment.
I further understand that all employees of the company, regardless of their classification or position, are employed on an at-will basis, and their employment is terminable at the will of the employee or the company at any time, with or without cause, and with or without notice. I have also been informed and I understand that no officer, agent, representative, or employee of the company has any authority to enter into any agreement with any applicant for employment or employee for an employment arrangement or relationship other than on an at-will basis and nothing contained in the policies, procedures, handbooks, or any other documents of the company shall in any way create an express or implied contract of employment or an employment relationship other than one on an at-will basis.








Signature                                                         Date




 
Employee Name: Printed